README.md, before:

# uam_logger_pkg

ROS2 (Humble) Python package (`rclpy`) to deterministically log UAM SITL data.

The logger is **fully autonomous**:

- it **starts recording** when end-effector trajectory reference messages begin
- it **stops recording** when reference messages stop for a configurable timeout
- it **exports a CSV** for offline plotting/analysis

All exported signals share the same time origin and experiment window.

## What it logs

Trigger (reference) topics (any of these can start the experiment):

- `/desired_ee_accel` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Accel`)
- `/desired_ee_vel` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Twist`)
- `/desired_ee_global_pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Pose`)

Logged data topics (during RECORDING):

- `/model/t960a_0/odometry` (`nav_msgs/msg/Odometry`): x,y,z, roll,pitch,yaw and twist (linear/angular velocity)
- `/t960a/pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped`) if available: motion-capture pose (x,y,z, quaternion and roll,pitch,yaw)
- `/ee_world_pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Pose`): all pose fields
- `/joint_states` (`sensor_msgs/msg/JointState`): all fields
- `/real_t960a_twist` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Twist`) if available: real system twist (linear/angular velocity)
- `/fmu/out/sensor_combined` (`px4_msgs/msg/SensorCombined`) if available: accelerometer linear acceleration

## Time handling (alignment)

All timestamps are taken from the **node clock** (simulation time when `use_sim_time=true`).

- `t = (now - t0)` in seconds
- `t0` is **preferably** the time of the **first** `/desired_ee_vel` message received during the experiment
- if no `/desired_ee_vel` arrives, `t0` falls back to the time of the first received reference message

No message header timestamps are used.

## States

The node runs this internal state machine:

- `IDLE`: waiting for a reference message
- `RECORDING`: buffering samples in memory
- `SAVING`: exporting CSV and resetting

`RECORDING → SAVING` happens when no reference arrives for `reference_timeout_sec`.

## Output

At the end of each experiment, a CSV is automatically written to `output_dir` with filename:

`<experiment_name>_YYYY_MM_DD_HH_MM_SS.csv`

Each row includes:

- `t`: seconds since `t0` (string formatted with 9 decimals)
- `topic`: the ROS2 topic name
- topic-specific fields (columns are the union of all keys across rows; unused fields are empty)

## How to run

Build your workspace as usual (example):

```bash
colcon build --packages-select uam_logger_pkg
```

Launch (recommended, enables sim time by default):

```bash
ros2 launch uam_logger_pkg uam_logger.launch.py 
  experiment_name:=sitl_test 
  output_dir:=~/.ros/uam_logger 
	log_every_n:=5 
  reference_timeout_sec:=0.5
```

Notes:

- `experiment_name` is a **prefix**: the actual file will be named like `<experiment_name>_YYYY_MM_DD_HH_MM_SS.csv`.
- At the moment you **cannot** set the full CSV filename from the launch CLI (timestamp is always appended).

Alternatively, run the node directly:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_node --ros-args -p use_sim_time:=true
```

### Parameters

Common parameters:

- `experiment_name` (string): filename prefix
- `log_every_n` (int): downsampling factor (log 1 sample every N messages, per topic)
- `output_dir` (string): directory where CSV files are written (default: `~/.ros/uam_logger`)
- `reference_timeout_sec` (float): stop condition timeout

Topic remapping via parameters (advanced):

- `topic_desired_ee_accel`, `topic_desired_ee_vel`, `topic_desired_ee_pose`
- `topic_odometry`, `topic_ee_pose`, `topic_joint_states`, `topic_sensor_combined`

> [!NOTE]
> - For SITL, keep `use_sim_time=true` so timestamps follow the simulator clock.
>- `px4_msgs` might not be available in every environment; in that case the node will warn and skip `/fmu/out/sensor_combined`.

## Offline plotting

Example output (odometry):

![Example odometry plot](resource/plot_odom.png)

You can generate plots from a saved CSV using:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/<your_file>.csv
```

Compare multiple experiments on the same figures (overlay):

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expA.csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expB.csv
```

Optional custom labels (one per CSV):

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expA.csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expB.csv \
  --labels "baseline" "tuned"
```

Optional: save the figures to PNG files without opening a window:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/<your_file>.csv \
  --save-dir ~/.ros/uam_logger/plots \
  --no-show
```

Commit message:

added controller node parameters logging and plotting

README.md, after:

# uam_logger_pkg

ROS2 (Humble) Python package (`rclpy`) to deterministically log UAM SITL data.

The logger is **fully autonomous**:

- it **starts recording** when end-effector trajectory reference messages begin
- it **stops recording** when reference messages stop for a configurable timeout
- it **exports a CSV** for offline plotting/analysis

All exported signals share the same time origin and experiment window.

## What it logs

Trigger (reference) topics (any of these can start the experiment):

- `/desired_ee_accel` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Accel`)
- `/desired_ee_vel` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Twist`)
- `/desired_ee_global_pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Pose`)

Logged data topics (during RECORDING):

- `/model/t960a_0/odometry` (`nav_msgs/msg/Odometry`): x,y,z, roll,pitch,yaw and twist (linear/angular velocity)
- `/t960a/pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/PoseStamped`) if available: motion-capture pose (x,y,z, quaternion and roll,pitch,yaw)
- `/ee_world_pose` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Pose`): all pose fields
- `/joint_states` (`sensor_msgs/msg/JointState`): all fields
- `/real_t960a_twist` (`geometry_msgs/msg/Twist`) if available: real system twist (linear/angular velocity)
- `/fmu/out/sensor_combined` (`px4_msgs/msg/SensorCombined`) if available: accelerometer linear acceleration

## Time handling (alignment)

All timestamps are taken from the **node clock** (simulation time when `use_sim_time=true`).

- `t = (now - t0)` in seconds
- `t0` is **preferably** the time of the **first** `/desired_ee_vel` message received during the experiment
- if no `/desired_ee_vel` arrives, `t0` falls back to the time of the first received reference message

No message header timestamps are used.

## States

The node runs this internal state machine:

- `IDLE`: waiting for a reference message
- `RECORDING`: buffering samples in memory
- `SAVING`: exporting CSV and resetting

`RECORDING → SAVING` happens when no reference arrives for `reference_timeout_sec`.

## Output

At the end of each experiment, a CSV is automatically written to `output_dir` with filename:

`<experiment_name>_YYYY_MM_DD_HH_MM_SS.csv`

Each row includes:

- `t`: seconds since `t0` (string formatted with 9 decimals)
- `topic`: the ROS2 topic name
- topic-specific fields (columns are the union of all keys across rows; unused fields are empty)

## How to run

Build your workspace as usual (example):

```bash
colcon build --packages-select uam_logger_pkg
```

Launch (recommended, enables sim time by default):

```bash
ros2 launch uam_logger_pkg uam_logger.launch.py 
  experiment_name:=sitl_test 
  output_dir:=~/.ros/uam_logger 
	log_every_n:=5 
  reference_timeout_sec:=0.5
```

Notes:

- `experiment_name` is a **prefix**: the actual file will be named like `<experiment_name>_YYYY_MM_DD_HH_MM_SS.csv`.
- At the moment you **cannot** set the full CSV filename from the launch CLI (timestamp is always appended).

Alternatively, run the node directly:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_node --ros-args -p use_sim_time:=true
```

### Parameters

Common parameters:

- `experiment_name` (string): filename prefix
- `log_every_n` (int): downsampling factor (log 1 sample every N messages, per topic)
- `output_dir` (string): directory where CSV files are written (default: `~/.ros/uam_logger`)
- `reference_timeout_sec` (float): stop condition timeout

Topic remapping via parameters (advanced):

- `topic_desired_ee_accel`, `topic_desired_ee_vel`, `topic_desired_ee_pose`
- `topic_odometry`, `topic_ee_pose`, `topic_joint_states`, `topic_sensor_combined`

> [!NOTE]
> - For SITL, keep `use_sim_time=true` so timestamps follow the simulator clock.
>- `px4_msgs` might not be available in every environment; in that case the node will warn and skip `/fmu/out/sensor_combined`.

## Offline plotting

Example output (odometry):

![Example odometry plot](resource/plot_odom.png)

You can generate plots from a saved CSV using:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/<your_file>.csv
```

Compare multiple experiments on the same figures (overlay):

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expA.csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expB.csv
```

Optional custom labels (one per CSV):

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expA.csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/expB.csv \
  --labels "baseline" "tuned"
```

Optional: save the figures to PNG files without opening a window and print to terminal node parameters in Markdown format:

```bash
ros2 run uam_logger_pkg uam_logger_offline_plot -- \
  --csv ~/.ros/uam_logger/<your_file>.csv \
  --save-dir ~/.ros/uam_logger/plots \
  --no-show  
  --print-params-markdown
```
